{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green56\blue108;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14900\viewh16100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs30 \cf2 There are three basic ways that court handle issuing TROs \'96 DV110s.\cf0 \
\cf2 \'a0\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 1.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 \'a0Someone comes to court to file for a DV Restraining Order.\'a0 There can be no permanent order (DV130) without a hearing.\'a0 So in order to get immediate (emergency) protection pending the hearing date ( which is about 3 weeks down the road) the person asks the court for a Temporary Restraining order (DV110).\'a0 All the paperwork is filled out by the litigant \'96 not a court user (including the DV110 they want the judge to sign.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1920\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 a.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 All the paperwork is taken by the clerk to a judge.\'a0 The judge reviews the paperwork, and on the basis of that review, makes a decision about whether or not to sign or not sign the DV110.\cf0 \
\cf2 b.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 Once the judge has finished this review, he/she returns the paperwork \'96 including the DV110 \'96 to the clerk\'92s office.\'a0 All the paperwork is then filed/endorsed by the clerk, and copies given to the litigant who must return to pick it up at the court.\'a0 If the judge has signed (granted) the TRO (DV110) then it will be served on the Restrained party along with the other required paperwork.\cf0 \
\cf2 c.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 The court process must turn this paperwork around for the litigant within one business day.\cf0 \
\cf2 d.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 Here is no hearing \'96 judge makes decision to grant or deny the DV110 on the basis of the paperwork alone.\cf0 \
\cf2 e.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 It would be weird for the court to be using FACCTS in the clerk\'92s office in this scenario, but not impossible \'96 they should definitely be able to do it if they want to.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 2.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 Basically same facts as above.\'a0 Only in this court the process does vary slightly because the judge actually talks with the person who is requesting the TRO.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1920\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 a.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 For example, if a person brings their paperwork to the court requesting a TRO in the morning, they are asked to stay, or return in the afternoon for a TRO \'93hearing\'94.\'a0 In some court, this litigant is required to try and give telephone notice to the Restrained Person about this little TRO \'93hearing\'94 so they can come in the afternoon if they want to.\cf0 \
\cf2 b.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 The judge then goes over the paperwork they have received at the afternoon TRO \'93hearing\'94 and asks the person requesting the order any questions that might come up.\cf0 \
\cf2 c.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 These \'93hearings\'94 are not really hearings in the strictest sense of the word \'96 they are basically ex parte processes used to make decision about TROs.\'a0 Many believe this is not the best practice to use \'96 but some court do anyway \'96 Orange County does, for example.\cf0 \
\cf2 d.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 The judge then either grants or denies the DV110 at that TRO \'93hearing\'94.\'a0 It is unlikely that FACCTS was ever used for this scenario \'96 although it could be.\'a0 But usually the litigants brings in a DV110 they have prepared ahead of time and give it to the judge to sign.\'a0 If we used FACCTS at this point, the court user would have to enter all the date into FACCTS at that point \'96 and I mean \ul all \ulnone the data.\'a0 These cases are not officially calendared \'96 so there would be no way to pull them down from the local CMS.\'a0 As a business practice, I am not sure that makes sense at this point in the process.\'a0 WE would be putting case data into FACCTS separately and independently from what was being concurrently put into the local CMS, and the potential for inconsistency seems high to me\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 3.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 The last scenario is when the court actually issues a TRO (dv110) at the time of the hearing set to get the permanent restraining order (DV130).\'a0 Now we are at the court date set 3 weeks down the road from initial filing.\'a0 The request for a TRO has been either granted or denied previously \'96 but if granted, it expired by its own terms on the date of the hearing.\'a0 So \'96 there are several scenarios in which the court would grant another DV110 at the time of this hearing rather than issuing a DV130:\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1920\fi-480\ql\qnatural
\cf2 a.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 The Restrained person could not be served \'96 notice of hearing is reissued \'96 as is the DV110.\'a0 In that case a new DV110 would have to be prepared identifying the new court date as the new date of termination of the DV110.\'a0 This should be done in FACCTS.\cf0 \
\cf2 b.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 Same facts as in \'93a\'94 \'96 but the original request for a DV110 was denied.\'a0 AT the hearing the case had to be reissued to allow time for service \'96 burt now the judge decides to grant some sort of Temporary Order pending the next court date \'96 a DV110 would issue.\'a0 FACCTS should be able to produce this order.\cf0 \
\cf2 c.
\f1\fs18 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\f0\fs30 At the hearing, the judge for some reason does not want to issue a permanent restraining order \'96 so instead they issue another TRO (DV110).\'a0 This is a bad practice, but it is done, for example, in Orange County.\'a0 There are a few reasons judges so this, basically to avoid the applications of certain restrictions on the restrained person that attach with the DV130, but not the DV110.\'a0 We expect this to be challenged in the appeals court at some point.\'a0 But in the meantime \'96 FACCTS should be able to produce the DV110 at the time of the hearing.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \'a0\cf0 \
\cf2 Scenario 3 is the one we basically are concerned with.\'a0 DV110s that are produced by the court, in the courtroom, at the time of a hearing.\'a0 FACCTS has never sought to produce forms that are intended for a litigant to prepare.\'a0 And in most cases, the DV110 is prepared by the litigant (scenarios 1 & 2).\cf0 \
\cf2 \'a0\cf0 \
\cf2 \'a0\cf0 \
\cf2 \'a0\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs26 \cf3 Deborah J. Chase, J.D., CFLS., Ph.D.
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 Senior Attorney 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 Center for Families, Children & the Courts 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 Judicial and Court Operations Services Division
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 Judicial Council of California - Administrative Office of the Courts 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 455 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco CA 94102 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 415-865-7598, Fax 415-865-7217, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:deborah.chase@jud.ca.gov"}}{\fldrslt \ul deborah.chase@jud.ca.gov}} 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.courts.ca.gov/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \ul www.courts.ca.gov}}}